Normative language improvements (#158)
AMWA-TV/nmos-discovery-registration: docs/5.1. Data Model - Identifier Mapping.md

Sources and Flows MUST be advertised via a Node's API, and registered via the Registration API if available. This SHOULD only be done on the Device which originates the Source or Flow; if a Flow is received by a Device from the network it does not need to be re-advertised via APIs.

Whenever a new Flow is generated, its immediate parent Flow(s) MUST be recorded. This is achieved via a `parents` attribute in the Node API Flows resource. This contains an array of Flow IDs corresponding to the Flows which have been brought together at this point. For example, an encoder which codes a raw video Flow C into a coded video Flow D would indicate `["<id of C>"]` in its `parents` attribute.

> **Important Note:** A processing element which has a 1:1 input to output relationship and doesn't make editorial changes only need create a new Flow ID on output and not a new Source ID. As a Flow ID descends from a single consistent Source ID, the Flow ID for these processing elements MUST be generated based on seed data including the incoming Flow ID. If this dynamic Flow generation cannot be achieved, the processing element MUST be viewed as a new Source instead (see Flow ID section below).

Author: [As per discussion] `source_id` could match a different Node's Source ID, but the above still stands. It could be written more clearly though:

```suggestion
Where there is a one-to-one input-output relationship with no editorial change, the output only needs to have a new Flow ID, as the same Source ID can be used. In this case the new Flow ID MUST be generated from information that includes the incoming Flow ID. If this cannot be implemented then a new Source ID MUST be used instead. For more details see the Flow ID section below.
```

@andrewbonney @garethsb I realise this omits the "descends from" part but does that really help?

Reviewer: Looks like there may be a missing word/words in "In this case the new Flow ID MUST be generated from information that the incoming Flow ID"

Author: Yes fixed so it includes "includes".

Reviewer: LGTM

Sources and Flows MUST be advertised via a Node's API, and registered via the Registration API if available. This SHOULD only be done on the Device which originates the Source or Flow; if a Flow is received by a Device from the network it does not need to be re-advertised via APIs.

Whenever a new Flow is generated, its immediate parent Flow(s) MUST be recorded. This is achieved via a 'parents' attribute in the Node API Flows resource. This contains an array of Flow IDs corresponding to the Flows which have been brought together at this point. For example, an encoder which codes a raw video Flow C into a coded video Flow D would indicate \["C"\] in its 'parents' attribute.

> **Important Note:** A processing element which has a 1:1 input to output relationship and doesn't make editorial changes only need create a new Flow ID on output and not a new Source ID. As a Flow ID descends from a single consistent Source ID, the Flow ID for these processing elements MUST be generated based on seed data including the incoming Flow ID. If this dynamic Flow generation cannot be achieved, the processing element MUST be viewed as a new Source instead (see Flow ID section below).

Reviewer 2: Discuss next week. I don't think it's valid for a Node to have a Flow with a `source_id` for a Source on a different Node is it?

### Node ID

For physical Nodes, the Node ID MUST be universally unique to that Node, and remain the same for all time (much in the same way as a serial number).

For virtual Nodes, the Node ID MUST be universally unique to that Node. If a snapshot is taken of a virtual Node and the snapshot re-deployed:

- If re-deploying via the same controller which created it and no other instantiation of this virtual Node exists, the original Node ID SHOULD be used.
- If re-deploying via the same controller which created it and an instantiation of this virtual Node exists, it MUST be deployed with a new ID. Uses of this Node ID (and child resources) in any other stored data MUST be mapped to the new ID during this process.
- If re-deploying via a different controller and it cannot be guaranteed that another instance of this virtual Node does not already exist, a new Node ID MUST be generated, with any stored data being mapped to the new ID during the process.

> To simplify the above for deploying snapshots, each instantiation of a virtual Node snapshop MAY have a new Node ID. In such a case, a mapping MUST be provided to translate between old and new IDs so that session / production / automation data remain relevant.

Author: Avoids using "must" or similar:

```suggestion
To simplify the above for deploying snapshots, each instantiation of a virtual Node snapshot MAY have a new Node ID. In such cases implementers are encouraged to consider how to translate between old and new IDs where session, production or automation data need to remain relevant.
```

Reviewer 2: Also s/snapshop/snapshot/

Reviewer 2: "each instantiation of a virtual Node snapshot MAY have a new Node ID" taken alone is a little confusing because _concurrent_ instantiations _MUST_ have different Node IDs.

Author: Yes. Perhaps we should just simplify lines 58-64 significantly to e.g.:

For virtual Nodes, the Node ID MUST be universally unique to that Node. In cases where it is necessary to redeploy a snapshot of a virtual Node, a new Node ID might be required, together with a mechanism to map between the old and new IDs.

Author: Obviously that omits previous "requirements", but it's not clear that they were actually mandated/followed.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense to me

Author: Ok, I've done that in 500c75d6a5ed73f4b7aa453b541e727e51d9483a. I'll leave this conversation open for a bit so @andrewbonney sees it.

### Node ID

For physical Nodes, the Node ID MUST be universally unique to that Node, and remain the same for all time (much in the same way as a serial number).

For virtual Nodes, the Node ID MUST be universally unique to that Node. If a snapshot is taken of a virtual Node and the snapshot re-deployed:

-   If re-deploying via the same controller which created it and no other instantiation of this virtual Node exists, the original Node ID SHOULD be used.
-   If re-deploying via the same controller which created it and an instantiation of this virtual Node exists, it MUST be deployed with a new ID. Uses of this Node ID (and child resources) in any other stored data MUST be mapped to the new ID during this process.
-   If re-deploying via a different controller and it cannot be guaranteed that another instance of this virtual Node does not already exist, a new Node ID MUST be generated, with any stored data being mapped to the new ID during the process.

> To simplify the above for deploying snapshots, each instantiation of a virtual Node snapshop MAY have a new Node ID. In such a case, a mapping MUST be provided to translate between old and new IDs so that session / production / automation data remain relevant.

Reviewer 2: Saying that a mapping MUST be provided but not saying how that could be done in an open way is... not very helpful

Author: Agreed. Let's discuss next week

Author: Resolving as this continued on a later conversation
